# Achyut Anand

### Smart Hack Smasher

Smart Hack Smasher is a project about security and protection from machine errors, malwares and malicious actors. We have chosen security issues in autonomous vehicles to present our case. Today, every major automaker and even tech companies like Google and Uber are working towards creating a high level of autonomy in cars with varied success. One of the major issues that companies are facing is security. As a computer science major, I understand what type of problems can arise from lack of a secure framework in a software application, especially when that application is heavily dependent on sensor data that are exposed to tampering. This project and the associated research paper aims to solve this issue in autonomous vehicles.

Over the course of the next 2 semesters, we will be going over existing research papers, analyzing algorithms, finding or creating datasets that fit our needs well, and creating a demonstration based on our findings to showcase that our solution is practical. To execute the aforementioned, we need to have a decent understanding of software development, machine learning, and analysis of data and algorithms. Fortunately for me, in the past 4 years at University of Cincinnati, I have taken a wide range of classes that would be relevant for this project. The knowledge that I gained from classes such as Data Structures (2028C), Python (CS 2011) Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS 4071), and AI: Principles and Applications (CS 4033) would help theorize and design a solution that would help us achieve our goals. In addition, I am currently taking Data Security and Privacy (CS 5158) and Cloud Computing (5165) that would give me a clear idea of how to design and implement a secure framework on the edge cloud.

University of Cincinnati has a great cooperative education program that helps students apply what they learn in classes in a professional environment and gain real world experience. A typical student graduates with at least 18 months of work experience. During my first co-op rotation, I worked at Axiom Product Development, a small consulting business in Blue Ash, where I was first introduced to Cloud and I learned how some of the fortune 50 clients that the company had collect and analyze data. I moved on to Siemens PLM Software in 2018 for my 2nd rotation where I was able to get hands-on experience with migrating a desktop application onto Cloud and offer it as a SaaS product and build some basic classification data science components into it. The third and last employer that I worked for 3 consecutive co-op rotations was Cummins and this is where I really got to work on several tasks that directly correlates to this project. These tasks included market research, analyzing products, analyzing algorithms, finding the best datasets for specific problems, creating complex machine learning algorithms to match specific business needs, creating anomaly detection programs, creating data profiling and data validation platforms and last but not the least edge computing using low power processors. All of the aforementioned tasks will be performed by us on this project at one point or another and I am glad that I am familiar with how to proceed with them.

There are primarily 2 motivational factors for me as far as this project is concerned. First, I have always been driven by the thought of creating something unique that can help solve a problem that exists in the real world. This project gave me an opportunity to design, develop, and innovate to solve a practical problem that multiple businesses are facing today. Second, as mentioned in the last paragraph, I did my last 3 co-ops at Cummins, the world's largest diesel engine manufacturer and one of the largest hydrogen fuel cell manufacturer as well. At Cummins, I truly got to see how an automobile company functions and the security concerns that arise even with minimal automation either at plants or in vehicles. Coming up with a solution that can solve the security concerns that come with automation is something that I have been looking forward to ever since I started working there.     

We identified this project during our first conversation with our advisor Professor Rashmi Jha in the first week of August. In the same meeting, we chose our use case to display a modularized machine learning based security solution for automated vehicles. Since then, we have looked at various other research papers that aim to solve the same problem. We have evaluated multiple different datasets available on the web to see which one of them could be the best fit for our demonstration. We are planning on using Docker, Tensorflow, scikit-learn and possibly some other module that would help us create both supervised and unsupervised machine learning models for each of the modules. The expected result would be to have a research paper that successfully theorizes a way to solve the security issues in automated vehicles using our ML based approach. In addition, we would like to have a simulated demonstration so we can showcase that the solution is practical as well. I will know that we have done a good job if we get published in a reputed peer-reviewed journal.



