# Smart Hack Smasher Assessment

### Mathew Lucy

Smart Hack Smasher is a new way of looking at security and vulnerability testing from the perspective of machine learning using the test case of a self-driving car. There are many things that can go wrong with the modules in a self-driving car from a bug or error in the input to a malicious cyber-attack. General approaches to this include mostly prevention with some rudimentary monitoring. But what if we could do better? Smart Hack Smasher is a research and development project that seeks to use machine learning algorithms to identify unexpected states in the modules of self-driving cars and prevent them from causing harm to the car and driver. The end goal of this project is a research paper that seeks to answer whether this can be performed in the field and a test-case example of this software.

Many aspects of my college experience have prepared me uniquely for this type of project. Obviously, my prior work in coding disciplines, especially python, here at the University of Cincinnati have refined my skills as a computer scientist for this type of research and development. Additionally, classes like Software Engineering (CS 3093C) and Python Programming (CS 2021) have given me many academic experiences of group project work. Both of these skills will obviously be immensely helpful in a senior design project that is both computer science and team based. Additionally, this semester will also provide me with many classes that are machine learning and high-power computing focused. These include Intelligent Data Analysis (CS 5152), Machine Learning (CS 5137) and Parallel Computing (CS 5168).

On the co-op side of the house I have also been prepared both as a Computer Scientist and a Teammate. My work at both the Department of Defense and General Electric Digital as a Software Engineer have provided me with the necessary skills to tackle such a large-form project. They have given me the opportunity to refine my personal work ethic and skills by working on individual projects. They have provided me group-based work that included intense performance reviews and tight deliverable deadlines. They have also given me the opportunity to touch aspects of machine learning and cloud computing using systems such as Predix and algorithms including Random Forest. I expect to apply all of these skills from both the academic and work experiences I have had in order to provide unique insights to my team, work on code as a software developer, and to be useful as a team member.

There are so many exciting things about this project. Being a research project I am being given the opportunity to explore the cutting edge of security and machine learning. Self-driving cars are also a technology that is still in its infancy and this project provides me the opportunity to do research that may direct its future. It also allows me to explore machine learning, a passion area of mine in the field of computer science. Finally, and most importantly to me, it allows me to create something that is deliverable in the form of code and a research paper that I will be able to use on resumes and in interviews. Together, this project serves as a culmination and proof of all of the work, learning, and improvement I have done in my five years here at the University of Cincinnati.

Our deliverable can be split into two sections, a software prototype and a research paper. The software prototype is more of a biproduct of the research than our final product, but it will serve to prove or disprove our hypothesis. I expect this to take the form of an algorithm or set of algorithms and code that take an input from a module such as a GPS or 3d Object Tracker and performs computations on it after being trained on a separate dataset. It will then show confidence in error detection when we feed it modified or incorrect data. Secondly, we will have a research paper detailing our findings, our process, and whether we were ultimately successful or failed in creating such a security module. We will thus know our completion of Smart Hack Smasher when we have determined an answer to whether modularized security via machine learning is the way to go.
